LEARN: Visualizing Unequal Access to Computer
Science education in Massachusetts as part
of Ab Mosca’s information presentation and
visualization course at northeastern university.
The purpose of our tool is to provide Northeastern
University’s club FirstByte, who distributes
computer science education materials across
Massachusetts schools, with accurate data
and information about potential schools to
send resources to.
Our tool can also be utilized by other grade-level
education focused clubs and organizations,
and people who are curious about information
on Massachusetts schools.
I will now be waling you though out visualization
tool.
There are 2 tabs, a map view and a table view,
we will start with the map view.
On the left, there is a map with a dot for
each school in our database.
Each blue dot represents a school that has
CS education and each red dot represents a
school that does not have CS education.
Watch as a I hover over this blue dot.
We can now see the school’s name, the county
that it is located in, if it has CS education
or not, and the type of school that it is.
The map on the right will highlight the county
the school is located in while we are hovering
over any point on the left map.
If we hover over the right map only, a tool
tip will appear under each county
we are highlighting with the county's name.
Now onto the table view functionality, we
offer the functionality
for the user to search for a school and its
information based on its name
So for example.
Ill start typing is 'Boston' as you
can see here all the schools that are in Boston
will appear.
and if we get more specific, fewer schools
will appear, then
the one school we are searching for will appear
here.
Then we can see if it offer's CS, the number
of students it has
the school district name, and the county.
All in all, our visualization tool supports
the ability to have an overview of which schools
in Mass have CS education and which counties
they are located in, and then get more detailed
information about any school in the map through
searching.
Thank you!